Add executing strings as a commands in Ruby cheat sheets (#958)
returntocorp/semgrep-docs: docs/cheat-sheets/ruby-command-injection.mdx

> 

Reviewer: CommandInjectionIntro uses r2c instead of Semgrep

Author: I updated the branch from changes in the main branch, this issue is now fixed. :-)

# vulnerable
user_input = "  && cat /etc/passwd" # Value supplied by user
Open3.pipeline("zcat #{user_input}", "nroff -man", "colcrt")
```

#### References

- [`Open3`](https://docs.ruby-lang.org/en/2.0.0/Open3.html) documentation.

#### Mitigation

- Do not pass user input to `Open3` methods.

> - Always try to use internal Ruby API (if it exists) instead of running an OS command. Use internal language features instead of invoking commands that can be exploited.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Always try to use the internal Ruby API (if it exists) instead of running an OS command. Use internal language features instead of invoking commands that can be exploited.
```

<LinkToRegistryRule ruleId="ruby.lang.security.dangerous-open3-pipeline.dangerous-open3-pipeline" />

### 1.B. open() function

> The `open(...)` creates an input/output (I/O) object connected to a stream, file, or subprocess. If the first argument starts with a pipe character (`|`), it creates a subprocess. An opportunity for command injection vulnerability is created when the subprocess includes user input in a command argument to `open()` function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `open(...)` creates an input/output (I/O) object connected to a stream, file, or subprocess. If the first argument starts with a pipe character (`|`), it creates a subprocess. An opportunity for a command injection vulnerability is created when the subprocess includes user input in a command argument to `open()` function.
```

<LinkToRegistryRule ruleId="ruby.lang.security.dangerous-open3-pipeline.dangerous-open3-pipeline" />

### 1.B. open() function

> The `open(...)` creates an input/output (I/O) object connected to a stream, file, or subprocess. If the first argument starts with a pipe character (`|`), it creates a subprocess. An opportunity for a command injection vulnerability is created when the subprocess includes user input in a command argument to `open()` function.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `open(...)` function creates an input/output (I/O) object connected to a stream, file, or subprocess. If the first argument starts with a pipe character (`|`), it creates a subprocess. An opportunity for a command injection vulnerability is created when the subprocess includes user input in a command argument to `open()` function.
```

#### References

- [open](https://apidock.com/ruby/Kernel/open) documentation.

#### Mitigation

> - Do not provide raw user input to `open()` function.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Do not provide raw user input to the `open()` function.
```

- Always try to use internal Ruby API (if it exists) instead of running an OS command. Use internal language features instead of invoking commands that can be exploited.
- If the use of user input is unavoidable, create an allowlist for inputs, such as allowed command arguments.
- Strip everything except alphanumeric characters from an input provided for the command string and arguments.

#### Semgrep rule

<LinkToRegistryRule ruleId="ruby.lang.security.dangerous-open.dangerous-open" />

### 1.C. system() function

> The `system()` executes OS commands in a subshell. This might potentially lead to command injection vulnerability when used with user input. The malicious actor can potentially run OS commands to exploit the system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `system()` executes OS commands in a subshell. This might potentially lead to a command injection vulnerability when used with user input. A malicious actor can potentially run OS commands to exploit the system.
```

Example:

```ruby
# safe
system("ls -lah /tmp")

# vulnerable
user_input = ' && cat /etc/passwd' # Value supplied by user
system("ls #{user_input}")
```

#### References

- [`system()` documentation](https://apidock.com/ruby/Kernel/system)

#### Mitigation

> - Do not provide raw user input to `system()` function.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Do not provide raw user input to the `system()` function.
```

- Always try to use internal Ruby API (if it exists) instead of running an OS command. Use internal language features instead of invoking commands that can be exploited.
- If the use of user input is unavoidable, create an allowlist for inputs, such as allowed arguments.
- Strip everything except alphanumeric characters from an input provided for the command string and arguments.

#### Semgrep rule

<LinkToRegistryRule ruleId="ruby.lang.security.dangerous-exec.dangerous-exec" />

### 1.D. exec() function

> The `exec()` executes OS commands. This might potentially lead to command injection vulnerability when used with user input. The malicious actor can potentially run OS commands to exploit the system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `exec()` executes OS commands. This might potentially lead to a command injection vulnerability when used with user input. A malicious actor can potentially run OS commands to exploit the system.
```

> The `exec()` executes OS commands. This might potentially lead to a command injection vulnerability when used with user input. A malicious actor can potentially run OS commands to exploit the system.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `exec()` function executes OS commands. This might potentially lead to a command injection vulnerability when used with user input. A malicious actor can potentially run OS commands to exploit the system.
```

Example:

```ruby
# safe
exec("ls -lah /tmp")

# vulnerable
user_input = ' && cat /etc/passwd' # Value supplied by user
exec("ls #{user_input}")
```

#### References

- [`exec()` documentation](https://apidock.com/ruby/Kernel/exec)

#### Mitigation

> - Do not provide raw user input to `exec()` function.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Do not provide raw user input to the `exec()` function.
```

> - Always try to use internal Ruby API (if it exists) instead of running an OS command. Use internal language features instead of invoking commands that can be exploited.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Always try to use the internal Ruby API (if it exists) instead of running an OS command. Use internal language features instead of invoking commands that can be exploited.
```

- If the use of user input is unavoidable, create an allowlist for inputs, such as allowed arguments.
- Strip everything except alphanumeric characters from an input provided for the command string and arguments.

#### Semgrep rule

<LinkToRegistryRule ruleId="ruby.lang.security.dangerous-exec.dangerous-exec" />

### 1.D. spawn() function

> The `spawn()` function executes OS commands. This might potentially lead to command injection vulnerability when used with user input. The malicious actor can potentially run OS commands to exploit the system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `spawn()` function executes OS commands. This might potentially lead to a command injection vulnerability when used with user input. A malicious actor can potentially run OS commands to exploit the system.
```

Example:

```ruby
# safe
pid = spawn("ls -lah /tmp")
Process.wait pid

# vulnerable
user_input = ' && cat /etc/passwd' # Value supplied by user
pid = spawn("ls #{user_input}")
Process.wait pid
```

#### References

- [`spawn()` documentation](https://apidock.com/ruby/Kernel/spawn)

#### Mitigation

> - Do not provide raw user input to `spawn()` function.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Do not provide raw user input to the `spawn()` function.
```

- Always try to use internal Ruby API (if it exists) instead of running an OS command. Use internal language features instead of invoking commands that can be exploited.
- If the use of user input is unavoidable, create an allowlist for inputs, such as allowed arguments.
- Strip everything except alphanumeric characters from an input provided for the command string and arguments.

#### Semgrep rule

<LinkToRegistryRule ruleId="ruby.lang.security.dangerous-exec.dangerous-exec" />

### 1.E. Backticks (``) or %x[command] methods

> Backticks ``` `` ``` or `%x[command]` methods enable to execute system commands and return their outputs. Both methods accept string interpolation. As for other methods mentioned in this cheat sheet, when this method is used with user input, it can lead to command injection vulnerability.

Reviewer: Enable who? This is not a gramatically correct sentence I think.

Suggestion:

Backtics or ... methods allow developers to ...

Ruby interprets the text inside of backticks as an OS command. For example, ``` `ls -l` ``` interpreted by Ruby prints the contents of current working directory. In addition, if the `%x` is used with various delimiters, it is also interpreted as an OS command. The ``` `ls -l` ``` in Ruby is equivivalent to the following:

- `` %x`ls -l` ``
- `` %x;ls -l; ``
- `` %x(ls -l) ``
- `` %x"ls -l" ``
- `` %x{ls -l} ``
- `` %x:ls -l: ``
- `` %x'ls -l' ``
- `` %x[ls -l] ``

Example:

```ruby
# safe
`ls -lah /tmp`

%x[ ls -lah /tmp ]
%x{ ls -lah /tmp }

# vulnerable
user_input = ' && cat /etc/passwd' # Value supplied by user
`ls #{user_input}`

%x{ls #{user_input}}
```

#### References

- Ruby [Kernel](https://ruby-doc.org/3.2.1/Kernel.html) documentation.
- Ruby [command injection](https://ruby-doc.org/3.2.1/command_injection_rdoc.html) documentation.

#### Mitigation

- Do not provide raw user input to ``` `` ``` or `%x` methods.

> - Always try to use internal Ruby API (if it exists) instead of running an OS command. Use internal language features instead of invoking commands that can be exploited.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Always try to use the internal Ruby API (if it exists) instead of running an OS command. Use internal language features instead of invoking commands that can be exploited.
```

- If the use of user input is unavoidable, create an allowlist for inputs, such as allowed arguments.
- Strip everything except alphanumeric characters from an input provided for the command string and arguments.

#### Semgrep rule

<LinkToRegistryRule ruleId="ruby.lang.security.dangerous-subshell.dangerous-subshell" />

### 1.F. Process.spawn and Process.exec methods

> The `spawn` and `exec` methods execute a system command and return its output. Both methods accept string interpolation. As for other methods mentioned in this cheat sheet, when this method is used with user input, it can lead to command injection vulnerability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `spawn` and `exec` methods execute a system command and return its output. Both methods accept string interpolation. Similarly to other methods mentioned in this cheat sheet, when either of these methods is used with user input, it can lead to command injection vulnerability.
```

https://ruby-doc.org/3.2.1/Process.html

Example:

```ruby
# safe
Process.spawn("ls -alh")
Process.spawn("ls", "-alh")
Process.spawn(["ls", "-alh"])

# vulnerable
user_input = ' && cat /etc/passwd' # Value supplied by user
Process.spawn("ls #{user_input}")

# safe
Process.exec("ls -alh")
Process.exec("ls", "-alh")
Process.exec(["ls", "-alh"])

# vulnerable
user_input = ' && cat /etc/passwd' # Value supplied by user
Process.exec("ls #{user_input}")
```

#### References

- [Process](https://ruby-doc.org/3.2.1/Process.html) documentation.

#### Mitigation

- Do not provide raw user input to `%x` methods.
- Always try to use internal Ruby API (if it exists) instead of running an OS command. Use internal language features instead of invoking commands that can be exploited.
- If the use of user input is unavoidable, create an allowlist for inputs, such as allowed arguments.
- Strip everything except alphanumeric characters from an input provided for the command string and arguments.

#### Semgrep rule

<LinkToRegistryRule ruleId="ruby.lang.security.dangerous-subshell.dangerous-subshell" />

### 1.F. PTY.spawn method

> The `PTY.spawn` method executes OS commands in a new terminal. This might potentially lead to command injection vulnerability when used with user input. The malicious actor can potentially run OS commands to exploit the system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `PTY.spawn` method executes OS commands in a new terminal. This might potentially lead to a command injection vulnerability when used with user input. A malicious actor can potentially run OS commands to exploit the system.
```

Example:

```ruby
# safe
stdout,stdin,pid = PTY.spawn("ls -lah")

# vulnerable
user_input = ' && cat /etc/passwd' # Value supplied by user
stdout,stdin,pid = PTY.spawn("ls #{user_input}")
```

#### References

- [PTY](https://ruby-doc.org/3.2.1/exts/pty/PTY.html) library documentation.

#### Mitigation

- Do not provide raw user input to `PTY.spawn` methods.

> - Always try to use internal Ruby API (if it exists) instead of running an OS command. Use internal language features instead of invoking commands that can be exploited.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Always try to use the internal Ruby API (if it exists) instead of running an OS command. Use internal language features instead of invoking commands that can be exploited.
```
